Zahra was her name. When the crate opened, all I saw at first were her eyes, the largest of any living creature, enormous golden orbs fixing me with a raptor’s murderous glare. She was a year-old fledgling taken from the nest, already lethal and immense. I was a woman of eighteen, small, wounded, overanxious. Sweat coated my hands and lathered my body beneath heavy leather work gloves and a tarnished scale vest. Ruhkers have been killed on the first day. If it happened to me, another apprentice would take my place.

Zahra stepped calmly into the mews pen without coaxing. Babak and the gathered ruhkers watching from behind the bars nodded approvingly. The fledgling hadn’t hunched in the crate in fear, nor exploded out of it screaming with rage. She was healthy, calm, and brave—the most anyone could ask for. My excitement ran like a fever—the blood hot in my head, my fingertips tingling and swollen. I was thrillingly, terrifyingly aware of my fragility. A roc could knock me down in a single blow. With one massive taloned foot, she could crush my head like a ripe apricot and tear out my entrails before anyone could make a move.

I loved her with the gravity of a stone sinking into a pool.

A fully grown female roc stands a head taller than most men. Fully spread, her wings reach as wide as three people lined up fingertip to fingertip with arms outstretched. Rocs aren’t the impossible size that storytellers and artists would have you believe, but nevertheless Zahra loomed over me. She made the falcon I’d flown as a girl seem like a toy.

I began to speak quietly, murmuring my admiration for her as I picked up the butchered hind leg of a boar, careful to use my nondominant hand as I placed it on the wooden perch. Zahra’s head jerked, staring first at me, then at my offering. A moment of fateful decision—one that felt to me like the judgment of God—before she hopped onto the perch as if she’d done it a thousand times and began to tear into the meat.

Audible sighs of relief escaped those watching. I backed out of the mews, opening and closing one barred gate and then the other, my knees weak. Babak was counting out a fat purse of silver for Gazsi, the roc hunter. He handed over the payment grudgingly but without complaint. As Master of the Royal Mews, Babak was responsible for ensuring that the king’s rocs and the ruhkers who handled them were maintained at full roster and in good condition. Gazsi charged a fortune for a captured fledging, but as one of the few reliable roc hunters, he could do so.

Gazsi sauntered past, whistling and swinging the bulging bag of coins. He paused beside me. “She was second to hatch.” The roc hunter’s voice was gruff, but had the singsong quality of a man from the mountain tribes. “Her sister tried to kill her, to push her out of the nest, but she hung on. I was going to take the older chick, but then I saw this one start to fly. She flew farther and faster than the other one. Was the first to hunt, the first to make a kill.”

He seemed almost teary-eyed—an incongruous sight, as Gazsi was a lion of a man, with a mane of wild hair and so many roc-inflicted scars that he looked as if he’d been flogged in a dozen dungeons. Roc hunters are even more demented than ruhkers. Gazsi spent months scaling the steepest peaks in search of roc eyries. If he found a nest, he camped in hiding nearby, watching the ugly white chicks until they grew into sleek dark youths and could fly and hunt on their own. Then he set a baited net trap in hopes of capturing and subduing a fledgling while its parents were away or not paying attention. So many things could go wrong: The trap might fail, leaving him with nothing to show for the season. The angry, trapped roc might kill or maim him. The adults might discover him and tear him to pieces, feeding him to the same chicks he’d watched hatch and grow.

Gazsi looked down at me, his nostrils flaring. His expression suggested he didn’t think I was worthy of the roc he’d risked his life to bring to the mews. Perhaps he held that opinion of every new ruhker. “Camel meat is her favorite. Liver especially.” He jingled his bag of money and strode away.

“Ester!” Nasmin came over and embraced me. When she pulled back, she kept ahold of my shoulders, her eyes dancing with excitement and the covetousness that every ruhker has when a new roc arrives. Ruhkers can’t get enough of rocs. Even with their own to occupy them, they can’t help jealously admiring new fledglings. “She’s splendid,” Nasmin declared. “I can’t wait until we’re hunting together. I’ll bring you all the choice bits from Azar’s kills during your dark days.”

I nodded in wordless thanks, relaxing a little into her optimism. Most ruhkers paid little attention to the apprentices, but Nasmin was one of the younger women in the mews and one of the few who’d been kind to me when I’d arrived a year ago. The simple knowledge that I had a friend who’d gone through what I was facing and was confident in my survival made it easier to not think about the alternative.

Babak handed me a canteen of water, a sack full of raw meat, and a blanket for when night fell. The Master of the Mews was nearly forty, a veritable ancient by ruhkers’ standards. His face was square and sun-leathered, his beard closely trimmed, and he spoke with gestures, grunts, and frowns more than words. Babak never treated me better or worse than any other apprentice. Only competence and dedication to one’s bird meant anything to him.

When a ruhking apprenticeship opens, each satrapy in the realm is required to submit the name of one candidate between the ages of sixteen and twenty-two, with talent in hunting, tracking, riding, and falconry, among other qualities. When I’d presented myself in the governor’s receiving room to ask for the nomination, Governor Govad had frowned down at me with grandfatherly bewilderment and concern. “Ruhking is no fit life for a young woman.” Govad had tugged doubtfully on his thick beard. “If you succeed, you won’t be able to come home. If you fail, you certainly won’t be able to come home.” In the end, however, he nominated me, perhaps because I continued to plead my case no matter his attempts to dissuade me. Or perhaps there were no better or more willing candidates.

Out of every five apprentice ruhkers, two will be killed or maimed, two will leave or be sent away, and only one will ever fly a roc. And the dangers do not diminish after that. Babak had seen apprentices come and go. He would place no odds on my success, yet his equanimity was an odd comfort, because I shared his blunt assessment: Either I would become a ruhker, or I would die trying. I would train and care for Zahra, yet she could never belong to me. In name, she belonged to Antrius the Bold and the Kingdom of Dartha, but even that was not true. A roc is always a wild thing, always God’s monster alone.

“Five days dark, then hood her,” Babak said. “I want her up in the air by next month, which means no time to waste backtracking on training if you make mistakes. Do it right.”

I tilted my face toward the sky, trying to soak in enough sunlight to carry me through the days to come. Then I went into the pen to join my splendid monster in darkness.

I was six years old the first time I saw a roc. At first, I thought it was an especially large buzzard circling overhead, but then it drifted lower in the sky, and I saw the shape and color of it, the sheer size of it. I started running, laughing and shouting, toward the open ground beneath where it balanced on the stiff wind. I wasn’t afraid, just childishly delighted, as if I’d seen a horse the size of a tree, or a dog the size of an ox.

My mother grabbed me by the arm with a shriek. “Holy fires, it’ll think you’re a little monkey and carry you right off!”

That was nonsense. Rocs don’t carry their prey away, and trained rocs don’t attack humans, but my mother didn’t know that. Nevertheless, she was right that it’s a bad idea to run underneath a hunting roc and distract it with noise and movement; ruhkers hate it when people do that.

Wild rocs were a rare sight in the south where I grew up. My father was a minor landowner with a small but fertile and well-managed parcel of pastureland upon which we raised goats and grew olive trees. We weren’t wealthy, but we were well off enough to have house servants in addition to field serfs. After I was born, it seemed my mother wasn’t able to have more children. She miscarried several times, each loss causing her tremendous pain and heartache. In some of my earliest memories, she’s lying on cushions, sweaty, pale, and exhausted, her breath sour from throwing up. “You were too big and came out too late,” she moaned. “You ruined something inside me.”

My parents went to the Fire Temple and fed sticks of sandalwood to the holy flames, they consulted with magi and astronomers, my father sacrificed many bulls and gave money to the poor, my mother sought out a slew of midwives and physicians, even journeying for days to see specialists in Antopolis, trying every medicine or remedy. But by the time I was eight years old, my parents had given up on their dreams of having a large family.

“Ester,” my mother said, “you’re a miracle. You’re our one and only. Don’t ever get married, don’t ever leave your father and me alone.” Even though she was a sad and unhealthy woman, my mother was still sweet to me. She was undemanding, generous to the servants, and didn’t make a fuss over getting things done in a certain way or by a certain time. She thought life ought to be enjoyed in the moment, messiness tolerated, and even children and slaves should feel free to sing and dance.

My father’s desire for a son was so strong that he not only allowed but encouraged me in the things I most loved to do: wandering for hours, getting dirty exploring, riding my mule, and looking after all sorts of animals, from baby goats to injured birds. He took me along as he made the rounds of our property, speaking to the senior field hands about irrigation, and crop yield, and fences against the wolves. I loved our land: the pale green grazing fields in the valley by the creek, the tidy groves of sunbaked black olive trees in red dirt, the mist that sometimes rolled down from the blue shadow of the mountains, and the gigantic sky, upon which only a few stretched clouds loitered.

Then, a miracle: My mother became pregnant. My parents were afraid to be too hopeful; after all, my mother had lost babies in their fifth month. So they prayed earnestly but quietly and tiptoed on cosmic eggshells, trying to pad our lives with good deeds in the hopes that this time their efforts would be noticed and rewarded. My father held a summer feast for three hundred people and gave our servants time off to visit their relatives. My mother did healthful breathing exercises and drank special soups and admonished me if I ever so much as muttered an unkind word about anything.

All their fervent wishing paid off. I was nine years old when my brother, Arnan, was born.

Arnan was a fussy, temperamental baby, but my parents were so overjoyed with him that even his hours of incessant bawling didn’t dent their enthusiasm. The whole house would be kept awake during his colicky nights, but if, in my sleep-deprived clumsiness the next morning, I happened to drop a bowl on the floor, my mother would hiss at me to be quiet and not wake the baby.

You can’t blame me for not being as thrilled with Arnan as my parents were. When he was in a good mood, he could be a charming little fellow. He would run up and hug me, and I would hold him on my lap and play with him and tell him stories, feeling very much like a responsible big sister.

Most other times, though, I felt driven to slip away to where I felt most at ease and most myself: wandering alone in the wide, quiet spaces, searching out birds’ nests, picking wild figs, stirring the creek bed with my bare feet.

I had a falcon, a male saker I named Cas, and I trained him to hunt birds. He was small and unusually light in color, quick off the glove and beautiful to watch, cream and dappled brown, like milk sprinkled with cinnamon. We had some open fields at the edge of our property that were ideal for flying him. One cool morning in the spring, I walked out to see a chariot standing in the tall grass. I was in a sour mood; my mother had told me to be back in an hour because I had to watch Arnan today, as she was going into town to shop for spices. So I could only get a couple flights in, at best. But the sight of the chariot made me forget everything. It looked like it might be a nobleman’s war chariot. Sunlight winked off the rims of its wheels as if they were giant golden coins, and its sides were painted with red feathers on a shining black background. The two harnessed stallions had proud arching necks and flowing white manes. There was a figure standing in the chariot, one hand shielding his eyes as he tilted his head back and scanned the sky. He blew a shrill reed whistle: tweee tweeeeee.

I walked closer and he noticed me. I stopped, Cas sitting hooded on my fist, as I stared into the face of a young man with a jet-black beard and dimples over his eyebrows. For a long moment, we eyed each other curiously. “That’s a good-looking tiercel you have,” he said. “I bet he’s got fire. How long have you been flying him?”

“Since last year,” I said. And then because the young man seemed friendly, and knew something about falcons, I asked, “Are you a falconer too?”

The young man laughed, a musical sound. “I don’t hunt sparrows.” He looked up into the sky once more. I followed his gaze and saw the vast silhouette of a roc swooping toward us, wings spread, just the tips of the long flight feathers moving as she sailed in a long, curving arc, nearly skimming the ground at the end of her trajectory. I ducked as she brought her flight up short, her huge taloned feet reaching seemingly for my head. A single one of them could encircle my skull the way a man might pluck a peach. She went right past me, the wind in her wake buffeting me in the face like a flash gale, here and gone in an instant. With astonishing silence, she landed on the chariot cadge, calm and regal as a queen.

Her ruhker tossed her a piece of meat the size of my fist, then hooded her and leashed her jesses. Up close, her size and beauty stole my breath; she didn’t seem as if she could be real. In some of the magi’s stories, angels take the form of rocs to convey the immortal souls of heroes to the spirit realm. In that moment, I believed it utterly. Yet the ruhker moved around her with ease and complete lack of fear, as if going through a familiar routine with an old friend. When he was done, he took up his spot in the chariot. He glanced back at me, touching his forehead briefly in greeting and farewell. “Good hunting.” He flicked the reins, sending the horses forward.

I watched until the pair of figures, the man and the roc, vanished behind a dip in the land. Then I turned around and ran back home without even flying Cas, my heart thumping. I wished I could’ve run after the chariot and shouted for it to wait for me. I imagined the ruhker holding his hand out to me, so I could take it and jump up beside him and go to whatever wondrous place it was where people and giant birds lived together.

Heavy canvas covered the gate and window of Zahra’s pen, blocking out the sunlight and noise of the outside world. During my waking hours, I walked slowly around the enclosure, my hand trailing the wall, talking to Zahra in a calm, low tone. I heard her shifting on the perch, ruffling her feathers.

The dark days acclimate the roc to the ruhker’s voice and presence. In the long period of sensory deprivation, the fledging starts to forget her old life, to feel that perhaps she has always been in this dark room, that the voice of her trainer is the only constant, the only thing there is, the only thing there ever will be.

It does the same to the ruhker. As the hours and then the days passed, my life shrank to nothing but Zahra. I marked the passage of time only by the regular occasions when the corner of the drape would lift and a hand would pass me a fresh canteen of water and a small meal—kebab wrapped in flatbread, a bowl of rice or stew, a piece of fruit. A few times it was Nasmin’s hand that reached through the bars. She squeezed my fingers in wordless support and passed me damp packages wrapped in cloth—the liver of a jackal, the heart of a wolf, the lungs of a wild pig.

I fed these delicacies to Zahra. I parsed out her food sparingly, so it was never long before she felt hungry again. It was important that she view me as a source of food as many times as possible during this impressionable period. Humans are not the preferred prey of rocs, but with a strong enough appetite and opportunity, they’re not picky. I had to prove to my roc that I was a better provider than I was a meal.

Sometimes a young roc is not convinced. I’m glad I wasn’t at the scene last month when screaming erupted from inside the mews and the canvas was drawn back on one of the new fledglings, mantled over her ruhker, eating his entrails.

Zahra became accustomed to the sound and shape of me moving around the pen, bringing tasty treats to her perch. It was not entirely dark in the room after our eyes adjusted. Light seeped in between the cracks of the wooden-plank walls and around the edges of the draping, just enough to see by. I paid close attention to how eagerly she fed; I couldn’t let her get too hungry or too full. While she ate, I ran my hands down her wings and back, admiring the sleekness of her feathers, teaching her to accept my touch. I felt a little sick with fear every time I approached her, but my voice did not waver from a soothing monotone. I was careful never to walk slower or faster, or to let my hands and body shake or fidget. All those things would’ve been signs of weakness, glaring evidence that I was just another prey animal.

On the second or third day, a loud noise came from outside—perhaps a cart fell over—and Zahra startled, opening her wings and lifting off from her perch. She knocked me into a wall and I slid to the ground as if I’d been thrown. There was only room for her to flap a few times from one end of the enclosure to the other. By then the noise had stopped, and she settled down, but my head kept ringing for a while. Another time, I waited a bit too long with the next meal, and Zahra grabbed for the meat in my left hand as I moved it toward her perch. One of her talons tore through the thick leather of my glove and gave me a bloody gash on the forearm. Tears sprang to my eyes. I dropped the meat on the perch and, as she ate, I pulled off the glove and sucked the wound, silencing a whimper as I retreated to a corner. I could leave the mews if it was a matter of life or death, or I could reach behind the bars to pull a rope that would ring a bell for urgent help. I did neither. The cut wasn’t deep. I wrapped it tightly in the cloth that had carried the still-warm wolf’s heart.

Ruhkers must be endlessly patient, determined, and stoic. They can’t express frustration, anger, or pain around their charges. During his apprenticeship, one of the other young ruhkers, Darius, had his arm broken by a roc while he was tethering it. He passed the leash to his other hand, tied it one-handed, and finished his chores cleaning the mews, sweeping with his right arm while his left hung dangling. All the while he never made a sound. After Darius’s arm healed, Babak gave him the next roc to train.

I relieved myself in a straw-filled chamber pot and received one change of clothes through the bars. I drank water from my canteen in small sips every few minutes, but even so I wore my throat down. Ruhkers can barely talk at all after the dark days. What I said was not important, only the sound of my voice. So I told Zahra about how long I had been waiting for her. I told her about the other rocs and ruhkers in her new home. I told her about our future, about how we would always hunt together. I told her everything about my family and the place I grew up: olive trees and goats, the stone house, creek water ice-cold from the mountains, falcons waiting on above. Mother and Father and Arnan. When boredom and exhaustion turned my constant talk into babbling nonsense and dragged my chin to my chest, I slept.

I became convinced that Zahra was listening to me, that she understood and accepted me, that she would always hold in confidence my innermost thoughts and secrets. She would never question my purpose or examine my motives; for her, I simply was. An immovable aspect of her world, as she was now in mine. That is the true purpose of the dark days. Perhaps training a roc can be done in other ways, but shocking a person into the mindless devotion of a ruhker cannot.

When Arnan was four years old he was insufferably stubborn and demanding. My mother, who’d never been a robust woman to begin with, often suffered from back pain and leg cramps that sometimes caused her to lie in bed most of the day. Even with seemingly boundless reserves of indulgence for her precious son, she regularly told me to take him away for a few hours to give her some peace.

One morning I told Arnan we were going to the east pasture because there were new goat kids and I wanted to see them. He declared that would be boring and refused to go. What did he want to do then? He wanted to look for stones. Arnan had a collection of colorful creek stones that he carried around with him in a small leather sack. He was a little miser about those rocks, always taking them out and sorting them, polishing them, piling them in different groups, and putting them back in, like a moneylender counting his silver.

I made Arnan a deal. I’d play with him and his rocks for a while if he would then agree to go see the goats with me. And he would have to walk fast, because he was too big for me to carry and I had a lot of chores to do later. He agreed. Partway through the game, he realized he was missing one of his white rocks, which elicited a stamping tantrum. He ordered me to help him search in the grass for it, and when we couldn’t find it, he demanded we go to the creek to look for a new white rock to replace the lost one. I refused, and started walking to the pastures. Arnan trailed after me, yelling at me to stop and turn back. I was the worst sister, a stupid girl, it was my job to take care of him, Mama said so. And so on. I kept walking. I heard him turn around and run back toward the house, howling with every step. Good riddance, I thought.

Arnan’s voice didn’t seem to be receding at all even though I was walking away as fast as I could. Finally, his screams cut out, presumably because he’d run inside to complain about me, and I closed my eyes at the bliss. The bees droned again. The birds chirped once more.

I sighed and turned around. My parents would not be impressed if I ran off for the rest of the day when I’d agreed to watch him. Since he’d calmed down, perhaps I could bribe him to forget his rocks and come along peacefully. I hurried back down the road and before I saw the house come into view, I saw it instead.

It was crouched like an enormous cat, elbows and hip bones jutting sharply out from its stocky frame, the quill-like hairs of its mottled pelt raised like a forest of needles. Its apelike head was bent low and I stared into its demonic face: malevolent mismatched eyes, slitted nostrils, a short grinning muzzle filled with two rows of dagger-teeth. The spiked mace-like tip of its tail whipped back and forth, lazily, in an arch over its body.

I had never seen one before, but countless frightening children’s stories gave me the name at once: manticore.

At the manticore’s feet was Arnan’s embroidered red silk jacket. Inside the jacket, I knew in an instant of detached horror, was Arnan. The manticore’s black tongue snaked out and licked his face, almost like a dog. Then it picked him up by his throat and stood, and my brother’s body dangled limp from the manticore’s jaws, the neck bent at an impossible angle, feet swinging just over the ground, one sandaled and one bare.

A scream began to leave my lips, but my fist, as if moving on its own, shoved itself into my mouth. I cut my knuckles on my teeth, tasted blood on my tongue just as my bladder gave out.

Run!

Arnan!

The two words shrieked in my mind at the same time and crashed, like two of my brother’s warring stones flung into each other, meeting in midair with equal force, falling. Piss warmed the insides of my legs and between my toes, but I was frozen, frozen like a rabbit in an eagle’s shadow, frozen as the breath before death. The manticore turned its gaze on me. One long, infinite stare. Its eyes resembled human eyes, but whatever feeling or intelligence was behind them was alien and hungry. One iris was golden brown, the other was as blue as the sky.

In the endless second when I knew my brother was dead and I was soon to join him, the door to my house opened and my mother came outside with a pitcher in one hand. “Arnan!” she called. “Ester—” She dropped the pitcher and screamed. Her scream split the air like axe cleaving bone.

The bronze pitcher landed and rolled away from her, spilling a river of white goat’s milk. No … My brain seemed to be moving too slowly, far slower than everything else around me.

The manticore was not slow. It dropped Arnan and took three great bounds away from me, its body coiling and uncoiling with terrible grace, and on its third bound, it knocked my poor mother to the ground. Her skirt billowed and flapped between the manticore’s front paws and her scream died in the air the instant she did.

My legs unlocked. They connected to the part of me that understood it was prey, the part that wanted to live. As the manticore shouldered through the open door of my house, the servants inside began to scream, and I ran for my life.

The well. I reached the well and rolled over the stone lip, bruising my hips. Hanging on with shaking arms, I scraped the skin off my knees and feet, scrabbling for a hold on the curved inside wall. My toes jammed into a crevice and I stifled a cry as one of the nails bent backward. A handhold, another foothold. A childhood spent climbing trees and scrambling up and down rocky embankments—I could do this. I could still hear screaming, which meant the manticore was not coming for me, not yet. I concentrated only on lowering myself, one inch at a time, to the bottom of the well.

My arms were fraying cord. At last I was low enough that my foot could almost stretch down to the surface of the water. How deep was it? Not deep, it couldn’t be—the spring had been drier than usual, nearly gone already. I pushed off the wall and dropped the rest of the way, legs buckling like a colt’s as I landed in the knee-high water and fell onto my tailbone with a splash. I curled into a sitting ball, wrapping my arms around myself, and leaned my head on the wall, my mouth stretched wide in silent sobs.

There was no more screaming from above, no more sounds at all. Manticores are driven into a killing frenzy by the sound of screaming. As long as it hears screaming, the manticore will not stop to feed—it will keep killing, one person after another, until it’s eliminated the threat of its prey fighting back and has enough food to gorge on until it’s full for a month. The sudden quiet meant everyone was dead.

Long minutes passed, and then a shadow darkened the opening of the well. I didn’t move. I didn’t even raise my head to look up at it. If the magi are to be believed, the manticore resembles its master, and I didn’t want the last thing I saw to be the face of the Deceiver. The manticore made a low snuffling sound as it paced a circle around the perimeter of the well. I squeezed my eyes shut and didn’t breathe. I made myself as small and motionless as I could.

I’m not here. I’m not here. I’m not here.

The manticore thrust its head into the well, blotting out the light. It growled in frustration. One paw swiped the air above my head, then retreated. It couldn’t reach me to drag me out and it couldn’t climb in after me. I felt its hot breath seeping down the walls and tickling the back of my neck. Then it pulled away. A shaft of sun drilled down to the bottom of the well and sliced across my face and arm. I knew the manticore was gone. It was eating my family and dragging away the rest to enjoy later.

I don’t know how long I stayed in the well. After some indeterminable time had passed, I thought about trying to climb back up, thinking that if I did, I would find everything as it had been—the day undisturbed, my mother turning to scoldingly ask me where I’d been all this time. We’d heard of manticore attacks, but they were rare in our area, something to be vaguely frightened of, yet easily dismissed, as unpredictable and unlikely as a lightning strike on one’s house. I’d spent countless hours wandering alone in nature and never imagined it would betray me.

The sound of men’s voices and horses woke me from the sleep that claims you after terror shuts you down. In a cracked voice I shouted, “Help! Please help me, I’m down here!” People came. They lowered ropes and pulled me from the well. The only thing I remember clearly after that is my father’s hands, bloodstained, but his face, bloodless, shock having turned it as blank as a fresh piece of papyrus. His lips moved and formed my name, though no sound came out, and as I fell into his arms weeping, I saw and felt, for an instant, the grief-stricken question flash across his eyes and stiffen his frame.

Why her? Why did she have to be the one who lived?

I don’t suppose my father ever guessed that I asked it as endlessly as he did. Some say ruhking is a calling. For me it was an answer to a question that had bored clear through my soul. I had a hole worn through my center, like one of Arnan’s interesting blue river stones. People have admired rocs for centuries. Artists paint them, sculpt them, tell stories about them. I wanted to be one. I wanted to be the monster that kills other monsters.

The dark days ended on the sixth morning, with a heavy rustle of canvas draping, a stinging shaft of dust-filled sunlight, Babak’s voice. “It’s time.”

He handed me a beautiful leather hood, deep crimson, intricately tooled with patterns of flame and gold-colored stitching. Black leather braces jutted from the back and the crown of the hood flared in an ornate yellow and red tassel. I didn’t want to sully it with my hands, dirty and stinking of organ meat.

Zahra was hunched on the perch, her golden eyes staring but unalert, sunken, as I was, into the monotony of darkness and eating. But she was hungry; she followed the motion of my left hand as I placed the bit of camel meat on the perch, then lowered her head. The tidbit disappeared into her crop, and as she straightened, I slipped the hood over her head and pulled the braces to tighten it.

She went motionless with confusion. My constant voice, however, and my hands stroking her wings—those were familiar things now. As Babak drew away the draping and fresh air flooded into the mews, she lifted her head and stood erect, opening her wings partway to feel the breeze.

Babak fastened anklets and jesses made of elephant hide to her legs. He attached the leash and tied it to the perch. It all happened quickly. “You can go now.”

I felt at a loss. Isolation had brought my emotions frothing to the surface and I thought I might start to cry. I made my way to the ruhkers’ house, swaying and filthy and empty-headed, a released prisoner. Where was Nasmin? I’d hoped she would be here to brightly reassure me that everything would be fine, that I was doing all right, that Zahra really was as beautiful and promising as I thought she was.

Instead, waiting on the path to the ruhkers’ quarters was Darius. Two years older than me, skinny as a heron, the apprentice I remembered for having endured a broken arm with such aplomb. “Nasmin’s been sent on a hunting call,” he told me. “She’ll be gone for eight days, maybe more. She asked me to tell you.”

“Oh.” Disappointment hunched my shoulders. Bone-deep fatigue hit me then. It was all I could do not to lie down on the path.

Darius appeared unsure of whether he was now free to walk away, his message delivered. He seemed ill at ease in conversation, one those ruhkers more comfortable with wild animals than other people. I couldn’t remember the last time we’d exchanged more than a few words in politeness. “I saw her that first day,” he said. “Your roc. She’s beautiful.”

When Darius said it, it was not the way an enthusiastic relative would compliment a baby, not the way Nasmin would say it. Darius said it the way a sculptor judges a statue, the way a chariot maker admires a fine new vehicle. “I think she’ll be strong. Look at how large her feet are; you can tell she’s still got growth. Good color. Nice and calm, too. She’ll be a great bird, if she’s not too lazy.”

I wasn’t sure if “thank you” was the right way to respond to such an assessment, so I nodded.

Darius rocked back and forth on his feet. “Minu is recovering from a bruised foot. I won’t be flying her until it’s better, so I’ll be around. If you want help.” I assumed his offer was made in politeness, since he walked past me without waiting for an answer.

The next morning, however, when I arrived back at the mews rested, fed, and washed, he was there.

“Are you waiting for someone?” I asked as I opened the gate to Zahra’s pen.

“I wanted a better look at your roc. All I got was a glimpse that first day. I could help you with lure training, if you want.”

“Her name’s Zahra,” I told him. I didn’t dislike Darius, but I found him awkward, his quiet presence subtly judgmental. “I think I’ll be fine without help.”

He nodded, neither offended nor dissuaded. “Then I’d like to watch, if you don’t mind.”

Like most ruhkers, Darius’s obsession with rocs was constant and insatiable. His own bird being grounded for the time being, he couldn’t resist an opportunity to get close to a new one. An untrained, untested roc held such a magnetic draw that I suspected Darius might not be the only ruhker who’d come by to see how Zahra was progressing.

I put him out of my mind and stepped through the gate, closing it firmly behind me, leaving him on the other side of the bars. “Hello, my beautiful lady,” I said quietly. “Did you sleep as well as I did last night? You must be hungry.” Zahra tilted her head at the sound of my voice and raised her wings. They cast an enormous shadow across the enclosure.

“Easy, easy,” I murmured, slowly running my hand across her upper covert feathers and down the long primaries. Seeing her properly now, in full daylight, Zahra took my breath away. She was still in her juvenile plumage: her breast a pale, speckled gray; her head, body, and wings dusky reddish-brown. Over the next couple of years, she would lose her mottling; her chest would become the pure white of harsh sunlight, and the rest of her would be the desert red of evening sun spilling across sand. Each of her great yellow toes ended in a sickle claw larger than a lion’s fang. She was a perfect aerial killer. I couldn’t wait to get her into the sky.

I stuffed down my impatience as I reached for a tidbit. Hurried or sloppy training would ruin her as a hunter and make her too dangerous to handle. Taking her out too early would mean losing her; she would simply fly off at the first opportunity, disappearing behind a treeline or over a ridge of scrubby horizon, never to be seen again. Like Babak had said, I had to do it right. I drew out a piece of camel liver and pulled off her hood.

She looked around with jerky-headed curiosity, then noticed the bit of meat I’d placed on her perch. She swallowed it, then looked for more. I tried to put the hood back on, but she moved her head to avoid it, so I put a small piece of meat inside the hood and let her take it. As soon as she did, I slipped the hood back over her head. I waited a couple of minutes, then removed the hood and fed her another tidbit. She would learn to accept the hood with ease, to understand that every time it came off, she would be fed. I repeated the process—hood on, wait, hood off, offer tidbit—over and over. Training a roc is nothing if not repetitive.

After a while, I brought out the lure—a stuffed wolfskin, head and tail still attached. Wolves would be her easiest quarry and most likely what we would start out hunting. I tied the rest of her meal to the lure and draped it over her perch, letting Zahra feed to her satisfaction while I cleaned out her pen. It takes a while to clean up after a man-sized bird. I was hot and tired under the armor and gloves by the time I was done. I mucked out her droppings, hung her hood on a nearby hook, added water to her bath, laid straw down under her perch, and raked the sand and gravel floor.

At some point, Darius left without me noticing.

He was back the next day when I continued introducing the hood and the lure, and the day after that. I started placing the lure some distance away from Zahra’s perch. When she jumped down on it, I blew a reed whistle and let her eat off the wolfskin. Then I put meat on her perch and whistled when she jumped back. Lure to perch, perch to lure. A few days later, I brought a chariot into her pen.

Rather, I tried. A two-man chariot is heavier than it looks, with large wheels that are difficult to maneuver unless you’re a horse. Darius found me straining against it, pushing it infuriatingly slowly over to the mews. For a moment, he stood watching me. I must’ve been quite a sight.

“A little help?” I panted at last, hating him.

“I’m glad you asked,” he said. “I wasn’t sure if your pride or your back would give out first.” He took hold of one wheel while I took the other. Together we rolled it into Zahra’s pen.

I leaned over with a hand on one thigh, wiping my brow. Darius closed the gate and stood in front of it. I realized this was the first time he’d been on this side of the bars, inside Zahra’s pen with me. I braced myself to feel annoyed, territorial. Instead I was pleased someone else was seeing Zahra up close. I hadn’t realized how much I wanted to show her off.

I unhooded her and stepped back quickly.

Zahra lowered her head and hissed at the chariot box. Her beak opened wide, her shoulders went up, her feathers rose, making her seem even more gigantic. Even the largest lion would turn tail and run at her warning display. I flattened myself against the wall. For the first time, the primitive part of my brain recoiled at being trapped inside a room with this predator.

She lunged. The leash tethering her jesses to the heavy perch brought her up short, so she landed in front of the colorful chariot, not quite able to reach it. Instead, she rose up to her full fearsome height, stretching her legs and neck, and her enormous wings whipped forward and beat the sides and wheels of the chariot with shocking thwap! thwap! blows that would’ve pulverized a man’s bones.

This went on for a couple of minutes before Zahra suddenly lost interest. It was as if, when the chariot didn’t respond to her attack, she abruptly decided it was entirely unimportant and no longer worth a fraction of her attention. She hopped back onto her perch and ate from the lure, no longer sparing the chariot a glance.

I let out my breath. My legs were trembling. I looked over at Darius, still standing near the doors. He met my eyes, smiling more widely than I’d thought him capable of. “Fantastic,” he mouthed.

I smiled back, my heart singing. She was fantastic.

When Zahra was done with the meat on the lure and was questing around for more, I untied her leash. I made my way over to the chariot box. A ruhker’s chariot is a modified version of a light, two-man war chariot; there is room for the ruhker and one other person to stand, but unlike a normal chariot, the floor is longer and the back of the carriage is outfitted with a cadge, a travel perch upon which the roc stands and rides. I placed the hindquarters of a jackal on the chariot floor by the cadge and whistled. Zahra looked at me. I whistled again, and she jumped from her perch to the chariot cadge in one enormous bound. Without preamble, she pinned the jackal’s hindquarters with one foot and tore off an entire leg. She tilted it down her throat—bones, fur, claws, and all.

I wanted to dance and shout with excitement. I could call my roc to the chariot cadge! This action would be the basis of our entire partnership. I was one step closer to the day when I could call her down from the sky or off a kill. Every time Zahra returned to the chariot to be fed, she would be willingly forsaking the wild to hunt with me another day.

Darius saw my triumphant thoughts clear as the sky. He still wore a faint smile as we left Zahra to her meal. As we walked back to the ruhkers’ house, I was so giddy, I forgot to maintain the indifference I’d been cultivating toward him. “Was that all right?” I blurted.

“Yes,” he said, so quickly I knew it was true. “Everyone feels like they don’t know what they’re doing at the start. You’re doing fine.”

He started to walk away from me, and all of a sudden, I didn’t want him to. “Wait,” I said. He turned around. “You’ve been watching my roc every day. It’s only fair I get to watch yours. When Minu’s foot is better and she can hunt again, I’d like to … I mean, would you…” Embarrassingly, I found myself stumbling over my words. “Can I come along on one of her hunts?”

It would be some time before I could take Zahra on a hunt of her own. But I wanted to be out there already, squinting up into the sky and across the horizon, riding across those wild plains with a roc in the air above. I wanted to be a better partner for Zahra when she was ready.

This time, Darius did pause for a long moment to consider before answering. Long enough for me to regret asking. I was on the verge of saying, a little angrily, “Never mind then,” when Darius said, “Would the day after tomorrow be too soon?”

We went out before dawn. Sunrise and dusk are when the big predators are most active and the best times to be ruhking. It was still full dark as Darius led the chariot up to the mews. I was yawning as I held the harnessed horses steady. Darius opened the doors to Minu’s enclosure. He murmured so quietly I heard it only because the only other sound was the buzz of nighttime insects.

“Wake up, my lady. What do you say we finally get out this morning for some hunting? The foot looks good. Does it feel all right?” Darius had always struck me as someone of few and blunt words, but there was an ease, a gentle intimacy in his voice as he talked to his roc, as if he whispered to himself. I felt almost intrusive for being there.

Darius gave one short, sharp whistle. Minu flapped through the open doors of the pen with a couple of big, jerky hops, landing on the chariot cadge. She sat calmly while Darius hooded and leashed her. He closed the doors of the pen, first checking that he had everything he needed. He climbed into the chariot and I climbed in beside him. It was just big enough for the two of us and Minu. If I turned, my face was only a breath away from the soft white contour feathers of her breast.

Darius flicked the reins and urged the horses onto the road. We rode in silence through the open country. I had a bothersome feeling I ought to try and make conversation, but Darius didn’t seem burdened by the same impulse, so I let the silence sit. It wasn’t uncomfortable, the way I thought it would be. We were both glad to be out in the predawn countryside, about to fly a roc. Words seemed unnecessary.

I breathed in deeply and leaned my elbows on the front of the box, watching the stars fade. Darius urged the horses faster; they were pureblood stock from the royal stables, bred to run through the desert with unflagging endurance. The chariot swayed a little under my sandaled feet, rumbling through my soles and up into my legs and body as the wheels ate up the distance. In the east, the sky lightened, then turned pink. The sun rose fast, burning up the wide horizon, spilling its first rays across the dusty scrubland.

The farther we went, the more Darius seemed to relax. His shoulders came down, his movements grew smoother and more assured, the small muscles around his lips and eyes slackened until his expression was almost soft. He eased back on the pace and started scanning. He brought the chariot to a gentle stop at the top of a wide, flat hill. Jumping from the box, he stretched his arms over his head, his long body flexing like a sapling in the wind. I climbed down after him. We were in a dry, yellow landscape with grassy knolls and dips that hid nests of ground birds and the dens of burrowing animals.

Darius studied the field with the calculating stare of an army commander surveying an approach. “We have a good wind,” he murmured approvingly. The strong breeze at our backs ran into open country, pleasingly devoid of ravines or heavy cover. Darius would want to flush game downwind to give Minu the most power possible in her approach.

“Let’s see if we can’t find you an easy kill,” he said, untethering his roc. He loosened the braces of her hood and slipped it off. Minu’s sharp eyes seemed to take in the entire scene at a glance. She roused, fluffing up her feathers. Then she took a crap off the end of the chariot and launched herself into the air.

I ducked. A bird as large as a roc is not elegant in takeoff or landing. Minu was a maelstrom of feathers and mad exertion as her massive wings pummeled the air. Darius had chosen this spot for its higher elevation, which made it easier for her to get airborne. Minu spread her wings and rode the downslope of the land, gaining speed, nearly skimming the ground. She pumped hard, once, twice, three times, flattening the grass below with the wind, and caught an air current that lifted her up and away from us in a straight line. When she was far enough to be a small silhouette, she curved in a long arc and circled back toward us. Darius watched her with one hand shielding his eyes.

I watched too, my heart in my throat at her beauty. Minu was much older than Zahra, glorious in her adult plumage. Her breast was as pure white as a funeral robe; as she sailed through the morning light, the bright tips of her long flight feathers seemed to be licked by fire. She made a long, high circle overhead, waiting and hungry.

I jumped back into the chariot eagerly. Darius jostled my shoulder as he did the same. He said, “Ready?” and without waiting for my answer, he shouted and whipped the reins, sending the horses galloping down the hill.

I hung onto the box as the chariot careened over rough and rocky bits of land, gaining speed. When it hit flat ground, Darius pulled the horses to the right, and then to the left, so we made wide, thunderous zigzags, avoiding shrubs and boulders, the sure-footed horses straining at the bit. Dirt flew. The wind whipped at my hair. Darius yelled, one long jubilant howl, and the laughter that escaped me turned into a wild shout that I added to his.

If anyone saw us, they would think we were reckless youths taking a prized war chariot on a madcap drunken ride that would likely end with our skulls smashed. What we actually were doing was fulfilling our part of the bargain: Minu hunts for us if we bring her to the prey. Our noise and commotion, we hoped, would flush out animals so that Minu, whose eyes can see the toes of a rabbit from high in the sky, would spot quarry.

I grabbed Darius’s arm and shouted, “She sees something! She’s after it!” but he’d already seen it too, and he pulled the chariot around and stopped. The horses’ lathered flanks heaved in and out as we watched. Minu folded her wings in a steep stoop, dropping from the sky. I followed the path of her descent and saw what she was after: a long-legged jackal, loping for cover. It was a large one, tongue hanging out between open jaws, but it was still slighter than a wolf, small prey for Minu. I gripped the chariot box as we start moving again, Darius racing to help, to cut off the jackal’s escape.

Minu closed in. She pulled out of her stoop near the ground, wings snapping wide as she leveled out and extended grasping talons. She hit the jackal, but the creature was both fast and clever; at the last second, it leapt nearly straight backward. Minu’s feet grazed its rump and tore off part of its tail as the huge raptor barreled past her prey into the dirt. The jackal yipped high with pain and darted, doubling back and running flat out away from the tumbling roc.

We reached Minu a minute later. She was standing on the rocky ground with one foot on the jackal’s tail. It looked like a sad, bedraggled trophy, a consolation prize for a botched kill. Minu looked up expectantly at Darius as he hopped down from the chariot and whistled. She jumped back onto the cadge and he gave her a piece of meat from his bag. “You’re rusty from being grounded, is all. We’re just getting warmed up. Don’t you worry, my lady, you’ll be back in shape soon.” The disappointment was clear in Darius’s voice, but he reassured her the way a parent might comfort a child.

Ruhkers train the roc, scout the land, set up the hunt. But we don’t control the outcome; in the end, that is entirely between the hunter and the quarry. That doesn’t stop us from feeling responsible. In nature, predators fail to catch their prey far more often than they succeed, but the whole point of the partnership is to improve those odds. I could tell that Darius saw Minu’s performance as his own. He chewed his bottom lip, pensive as he hooded and tethered her, no doubt analyzing whether he could have set up the hunt better or gotten there faster to cut off the jackal’s escape. He caught my eye for a second as we climbed back into the box but looked away, embarrassed.

Darius angled us west, toward some trees. He wanted to try again, soon, before the sun was too high. We sat under some shade and waited, and within an hour we spotted two vultures circling in the distance. Vultures meant a carcass was near, which also meant whatever was responsible for the carcass was also near. As we started toward the vultures, a group of roe deer emerged from a stand of scrub oak, gliding their way into the open.

It’s not a good idea to fly a roc on hoofed animals like deer or boar too often. Wild rocs will go after easier kills at every chance, but we don’t want to discourage our birds from going after the big dangerous predators we train them for. Darius hesitated, but I knew what he was thinking and so I said it out loud instead. “I’m sure it would help her confidence.”

Darius turned the chariot around and took it to higher ground, behind the trees the deer had come from. We had a nice, strong wind at our backs as we circled the copse and picked up speed in pursuit of the herd. Without a word, Darius handed me the reins and I kept the horses steady as he untethered Minu and pulled off her hood. She launched straight from the moving chariot, barely clearing the heads of the horses and catching the wind as it sped over the treetops.

The deer bolted at the shadow of the enormous raptor. We were running parallel to them now, penning them in on one side, and Minu came at them from the other. There was no time or distance for her to gain the height for a straight dive; instead she pumped hard and sailed into one of the deer at full speed, talons seizing it by the back and slamming it to the ground with an audible crack.

When we got there, we saw that the deer’s lower half was twisted almost at a right angle to the rest of the body. Minu’s blow had broken the deer’s spine clean in half. She had torn open the belly with one foot and was already eating. Darius hummed to her and, moving very slowly to show he wasn’t trying to steal her kill, he dug around in the carcass and pulled out the deer’s heart. “Nicely done, my lady.” Minu dipped down and drank from the blood pooled in the chest cavity. When Darius whistled, she hopped back onto the chariot cadge, and he dropped the heart at her feet, then the liver too.

As she ate, we sat and rested, drinking from our canteens. It was past midday. Darius wiped his bloody hands and forearms on the grass, and pulled out a cloth bundle from his bag, inside which he’d wrapped flatbread, some goat cheese, and a handful of figs. Wordlessly, he spread the cloth in front of us and we ate, basking in the sunshine and the satisfaction of his roc’s hunt.

When I think of how I met Darius, it’s not the instances we initially crossed paths in the mews that come to mind. It’s not even those early training sessions with Zahra. It remains that day out in the field with Minu. A person might pass a tree on the path every day and not notice it until it springs fruit at a time they’re hungry. I saw Darius clearly for the first time, as a ruhker perfectly in tune with his roc. I wanted that more than anything for myself and Zahra.

After lunch, we set ourselves to field dressing the deer. As we worked, Darius said, “Minu’s not the biggest, or the strongest, or the fastest. But she’s persistent. She works for every kill.” There was affection and admiration in his voice. Minu hadn’t been a fledgling when she was paired with Darius. He’d inherited her when she was fourteen years old, already a seasoned veteran, after her previous ruhker died in an accident. Rocs can live for thirty to forty years, so it’s not rare for them to outlive their handlers. Despite the fact that rocs are not social creatures, they do get highly attached to routine and, over the years, form a bond with the person who hunts with them and feeds them, making handlers difficult to replace. If Darius hadn’t succeeded, Babak would’ve had to take Minu deep into the mountains and release her.

We hooded and tethered Minu and loaded the deer onto the floor of the chariot. Darius grabbed its front half and I grabbed the back and we swung it up so it was lying right under Minu’s cadge, the skinny legs jutting off the back. Darius covered the body with a tarp and weighed the edges down with rocks. We had to step over it to get back into the box. The venison would go to the palace kitchens, where it might even find its way into a dish for the king.

Darius squinted into the distance, steering the chariot toward the vultures we’d seen earlier. We slowed as we approached; if there were wolves or lions feeding, we wanted to have Minu in the air long before they saw us. More vultures had gathered by now, flapping over the dead animal like a feathery black blanket. We didn’t have to get close before seeing there was something very wrong.

The carcass lay in the middle of a rutted road. Behind it was an overturned cart, one wheel broken off and lying a short distance away. Bright orange balls lay scattered all around. Darius and I stared for a moment at the strange sight, then he whipped the horses forward in a gallop. The vultures scattered at our intrusion, squawking angrily, their naked heads hunched over their billowing cloak-like bodies. They had been feeding on a dead donkey—recently dead by the looks of it, its head mostly torn off and its eyes pecked out by the carrion birds, but the body not yet bloated or rotten. The colorful balls were tangerines, a whole cartload of them spilled across the dirt.

Where there had been a donkey and a cart, there must’ve been a person. Instead, we saw scraps of blood-stained light brown fabric and a single man’s sandal, lying amid squashed fruit.

The day had been so pleasant up until then that the dark and terrible turn snatched the breath out of my chest. There’s only one thing that would kill a man and leave his donkey and possessions to rot on the road. Manticores will eat just about anything when hungry—deer, camels, livestock—but given a choice, they will go after their preferred prey. We are the preferred prey. They hunt where there are small groups of people: roads with travelers, farmed fields and orchards, the outskirts of towns and villages. The farmer would’ve been on his way to market when the monster glided out from the trees and down to the road. He’d tried futilely to hide behind his donkey.

Thank God he’d been alone.

Darius jumped out of the chariot and walked toward the grisly tableau. He crouched, examining the ground, and touched fingertips to the prints in the dirt, mixed in among the bits of bloody cloth, the mangled donkey, and the sweet, citrus smell of tangerines. He stood. His eyes followed the bloody drag lines in the dirt, leading off the road and into the gully, where they were broken up by the rocky ground. Our eyes lingered on the shadows in the nearby trees, the rocks and grass that might break up the mottled black and tan of a manticore’s pelt. The monster was gone by now, but that didn’t mean Minu might not see it from the sky.

When Darius came back to the chariot, he put a hand on Minu’s jesses, unsure of what to do. Minu had recently recovered from injury, had already hunted twice that day, and had fed just an hour ago. She’d be heavier, slower, and less motivated than she needed to be to tackle a manticore. She could be injured or killed, in which case, Darius and I were dead as well.

But one man wouldn’t be enough to satisfy a manticore’s appetite. With people nearby, it would kill again as soon as it got an opportunity. The only thing we can rely on to kill a manticore is a roc. Arrows fail to pierce the monster’s quilled pelt. Dogs will not face them. In the wild, even wolves and lions avoid them; only the largest bears need not fear. Manticores can’t be poisoned and rarely stay in one place long enough to be snared by elaborate traps.

Rocs are their only natural predator, delivering sudden death from the sky in a way nothing can on earth. Perhaps, as the magi say in their stories, ruhking was founded by Raka, the great hero of myth who befriended the Queen of Rocs, but more likely the tradition was born in ancient times by falconers who witnessed wild rocs bringing down prey much larger than themselves, even killing manticores. Moments like this are what we ruhkers train for. Hunting the wolves, lions, and leopards that prey on our livestock is part of our job. Culling deer or wild boar and taking home the meat is a perk. Killing manticores is our duty. Our calling.

Darius steered the horses away from the carnage, following the manticore’s drag tracks from the road. When we were far enough away that Minu wouldn’t be distracted by the donkey carcass, Darius unleashed and unhooded her. She looked around, then shifted her feet on her perch. For a moment, I thought she was bored or tired and not going to fly, but then she took off, struggling visibly to gain altitude without the advantage of high elevation. Her muscled wings beat in huge, heavy strokes until she hit a good wind current and soared up high over the plain. Darius watched her, worried. I watched for the manticore. If the monster was nearby, all we could do was hope Minu saw it and got to it before it got to us.

The chariot’s sturdy wheels navigated the rough terrain. Minu waited overhead, gliding in slow, expectant circles. The drag trail became difficult to follow, but Darius spotted fabric snagged on dry shrubbery beneath a rock outcropping at the base of a hill. It was mingled with bits of white and red gristle. What was left of the unfortunate tangerine farmer looked like it could be tossed out in a pail behind the butcher’s for the dogs to bicker over.

There was no path up the hillside and it was too rocky for the wheels to navigate any farther. “I’m going to take a look from up there.” Before I could respond, he got out of the chariot and began climbing up the slope in a crouch. I still barely knew Darius; I marveled at his matter-of-fact bravery even as I cursed under my breath and broke into a sweat imagining the manticore rising from the other side of the hill, mouth agape, dragging the man down under its body. To my great relief, he reached the top of the hill safely and straightened up slowly, cautiously. He gazed down the other side of the hill for several minutes, then turned around and came back down, taking hopping steps and skidding a little as he hurried back. “There’s a town about two and a half parasangs away,” he said. “We need to send word to them.”

“Did you see any sign of the manticore?”

Darius shook his head. “Minu hasn’t either. It’s moved on, or it’s hiding and sleeping off its meal.” He raised his face to look for his roc. “I’m going to bring her in.”

Minu dipped low, close to the chariot, as if questioning what in heaven’s fire we were doing standing around and talking—would there be hunting or not? Darius put two fingers to his mouth and whistled so loudly I jumped; clearly he had no need for one of the reed whistles I carried. Minu didn’t respond at first. She made another circle, reluctant to land, but on the next pass she came in and hit the chariot cadge, a bit ungracefully. Darius gave her meat from his bag, leashed and hooded her, and took the reins gently from my damp hands. He turned the chariot around and set the horses running for the mews.

It was the right decision; there were only a couple hours of daylight left and Minu wouldn’t fly or hunt in the dark. Being out in manticore territory after the sun fell would be a bad idea. Nevertheless, I looked behind us with a cold, helpless ache in my stomach, thinking of the manticore rousing and prowling toward its next meal.

When we got back to the mews, Babak called a briefing. He said we’d done the right thing by hurrying back. By lamplight, we marked the manticore’s kill site and direction of travel on one of the large maps that hung in the room. We pointed out the town and circled the nearby areas we thought the manticore might be hiding. The Master of the Mews sent messengers racing out on horseback to warn the townspeople and neighboring farms to arm themselves and shelter in their homes with their doors and windows boarded. At first light he sent three ruhkers and their rocs out to hunt for the man-eating beast.

I waited in suspense for news. Many manticore hunts had taken place since I’d arrived as an apprentice, but this one felt more real and urgent. It was the first attack to occur since I’d gotten Zahra. The day would soon come when my name would be pinned to Babak’s map and I would be the one sent out to slay the monster before it could kill again. That day seemed terrifyingly close and still agonizingly far away.

I couldn’t stop thinking about the tangerine farmer, wondering what kind of person he’d been, about the family that was now grieving for him yet unable to give his remains a proper cremation. Someone had come to my father’s house—it would never again be a home, merely a house—to tell us that the king’s ruhkers had caught and killed the monster that ruined my life, but I never knew how much of Arnan and my mother was recovered. I wonder if my father did.

Darius and I learned later that on the night the tangerine farmer was taken, a nearby farm was terrorized. Two field serfs were dragged away and eaten. The family hid in the cellar all night while the manticore tore at their walls before wandering off at dawn. Later that afternoon, one of our ruhkers and his roc tracked down the beast and dispatched it less than a parasang away from the town Darius had spotted from the top of the hill. Thanks to Babak’s early warnings, none of the townspeople lost their lives.

I asked Darius if he was disappointed he hadn’t been the one to make the kill. Usually the ruhker and roc who flag quarry get the first right to hunt it. Darius shook his head. “Not worth it.” Not worth endangering Minu when she wasn’t in peak form. As large as a roc is, she still weighs less than a man, while a manticore weighs as much as a bear. Many a tragic hunt has ended with the tables turned, with the manticore injuring or killing the roc, and often a roc will refuse to tackle a manticore if it doesn’t feel confident enough. Ruhking is a proud profession that attracts some individuals motivated by personal ego and the number of kills they can attach to their names. Darius wasn’t one of those people; he might not be happy about losing his quarry, but he was also relieved not to risk Minu’s life.

After that day, the two of us became friends, without ever speaking of it, the way one falls into a comfortable habit. We would arrive at our birds’ pens at the same time in the morning, share supplies and chores, watch the other person’s roc during training and hunting in the way neighbors in a village watch each other’s children. If we’d met outside of the mews under any other circumstance, I doubt we would’ve been able to keep a single conversation going—Darius was even less naturally sociable than I was—but a shared obsession with ruhking brought and kept us together as easily as two leaves flowing side by side down the same stream.

Nasmin returned with three lion skins draped over the front of her chariot, riding up to the mews like a triumphant warrior queen. I was working with Zahra on the training field when I saw her thunder by. What other woman in all of Dartha could travel in the wilderness for ten days, kill three lions, and arrive with a glowing smile and perfect hair, as if making an entrance at a nobleman’s banquet?

My moment of envy passed and all I felt was gladness at seeing her back safely.

Nasmin beamed at everyone, even the ones she knew leered or scoffed at her behind her back. She embraced me and kissed my cheeks like a sister. “Come, feel this. Isn’t it the softest lion pelt you’ve ever touched? I think I’ll have it made into a rug and sent as a gift to my brother’s wife.”

Nasmin’s enormous rust-colored roc, Azar, stood regal, eyeing everything murderously. She was a fine hunter and tame enough with Nasmin, but liable to take a dislike to other people. I took several steps back just to be safe. Nasmin drew me aside. “I wish I’d been here when your dark days ended,” she said apologetically. “I knew you’d be fine, but I still worried and said my prayers five times a day. How’s Zahra’s training going? When will you be able to take her out?”

“Soon, I think,” I told her. Babak had wanted Zahra up in the air within a month, and I was well aware that I was up against his deadline. “She’s flying to the wolf lure every time, and back to the cadge on the whistle. I hooded her and took her riding on the chariot for an hour yesterday. She bated from the cadge a couple of times, but settled down quickly.”

“I’ll come with you on her first free flight,” Nasmin promised.

It was strange to be friends with both Nasmin and Darius. They were cordial enough with each other, but so different that when the three of us were together, I felt like a bridge spanning a river between two countries. “Everyone says he’s a good ruhker, but he’s rather dour and awkward, don’t you think?” Nasmin whispered to me. Darius didn’t comment on Nasmin, but sometimes after her effervescent personality had passed by us like a summer rain shower, he would sigh in relief, and his hunched shoulders would come down.

Nasmin would come by occasionally while I was working with Zahra and speak with me at length, offering her experience and advice. Darius watched almost all the time but rarely commented. Even their advice on training methods sometimes conflicted. “Cut her weight down further,” Nasmin suggested. The hungrier a roc gets, the more eagerly it will hunt. If I fed Zahra less, Nasmin said, I could fly her sooner and start building her confidence with easy kills. A hungry and confident roc will more reliably take on larger prey.

Darius relied less on weight cutting and spent more time training a roc to the lure and the whistle. In his opinion it was better to habituate a roc to respond at a stable weight so it was accustomed to hunting and, more importantly, returning to the ruhker, even when it was not famished. Rocs “with fire”—the eagerness to kill—were motivated, he said, not just by hunger but, like the ruhker, by the joy of the hunt itself.

I had no idea who was right. So even with all the good advice, I muddled along, as I suspect all ruhkers do, adjusting and doing my best based on what I thought would work for my bird. Zahra was smart, I was sure of it, but like parents, a lot of ruhkers think their charges are unusually intelligent. My roc was well-mannered and calmed quickly even when exposed to new sights and noises. I never forgot how dangerous she was, but I didn’t think she would maim or kill me intentionally without a good reason.

But she could be moody, inconstant in her willingness to do as I asked. Sometimes she responded immediately to me throwing the lure or blowing the whistle. At other times, even though I knew she was hungry, she ignored me or gazed far off into the distance or cleaned her feathers. Finally, she would glance over with an expression that seemed to say, “You’re still here? Very well, I shall deign to eat these inadequate scraps you’ve brought me.” It was as if she wanted to prove to me that everything she did was still of her own free will and, hungry or not, she would do only what she liked. Remember, you need me more than I need you. I imagined that was what she was saying to me in those moments. I didn’t need reminding.

Before long, Darius said, “I think she’s ready.” He tapped an unflagged part of Babak’s board. “There’s a good, flat stretch of road here. I’ve taken Minu there before.”

Nasmin, Darius, and I rode out on an early summer morning through a countryside strewn with wildflowers beneath a vast unmarred sheet of pale blue sky that stretched from horizon to horizon. Nasmin stood beside me in my chariot and Darius drove his own ahead of ours. There was no laziness or reluctance in Zahra today. When I unhooded her, she sat up straight and tall and swiveled her head back and forth, excited by the incredible expanse of empty yellow land stretching away in all directions. I stepped back to stand beside Nasmin. A gust of wind ruffled my hair and Zahra’s feathers, and my heart jumped to my throat as she launched upward.

Her wings pumped—smooth, hard strokes as they plowed the air. The wind carried her off the edge of the embankment and bore her aloft. She was marvelous, and she was flying away from me. My chest clenched like a closing fist and tears pricked the backs of my eyes. I was overcome by Zahra’s beauty and the sudden panic that all my work over the past month had been for nothing. I had no hold over her. She was free and leaving me forever.

Nasmin hugged me from behind. “I know,” she whispered. “It’s terrifying, isn’t it?”

Below us, a puff of dust rose up behind clattering wheels as Darius ran his chariot hard down the long, packed-dirt road. Minu was not on it; she was back in the mews. A stuffed wolfskin lure was tied to the cadge with a long rope. It bounced and flew through the dust as the chariot dragged it along at high speed. From this distance, I could envision it was a real wolf, running behind the chariot, pelted by dust until its sleek silver coat was a dirty tan. I held my breath, my eyes sweeping back and forth from the wolf lure to the sight of Zahra rising into the blue. “She’s not going after it,” I whispered.

“Just wait,” Nasmin said.

“She’s not, I’m going to lose her.”

“Look.” Zahra stopped climbing. She seemed to hang in the sky for an eternity of a second, then she banked and curved, swinging around behind the chariot in a great arc. I craned my neck to look up as she soared right over our heads and flattened out into a straight pursuit. Darius flicked the reins to keep the horses running, expertly half-turned in the carriage so he could see Zahra’s rapid approach. I didn’t dare to breathe.

She chased down the wolf lure and fell upon it, her grasping talons puncturing it, crushing it. Darius kept the chariot horses running, dragging lure and roc along, until he saw Zahra’s talons sink into the wolf’s head, then he pulled the chariot to a stop.

Nasmin and I whooped and hugged each other, jumping up and down together like silly girls. Then we leapt into my chariot and raced back down the embankment. When we reached Darius, he was untying the lure while Zahra sat upon it triumphantly. She’d torn it open and was contentedly swallowing the meat I’d stuffed inside earlier. When she’d taken the edge off her hunger, I blew my whistle and held up a fatty piece of camel liver. I dropped it next to her cadge. She cocked her head at me indulgently, made one large hop over the torn wolfskin, then walked to my chariot, in that comical bobbing way of large birds, but as calm and aloof as could be. She climbed onto the cadge and ate while I tethered her.

Darius wound the rope while I cleaned and patched the lure. Nasmin gushed, talking about Zahra’s already impressive wingspan, her beautiful hunting form. She’d be ready for real quarry in no time. There wasn’t any awkwardness between Nasmin and Darius; we were all in too good a mood. We traveled a little farther and flew Zahra twice more before the heat began to climb. When we turned back for the mews, I was giddy, unable to stop grinning.

That’s how I want to remember the three of us. Not marred and bowed by tragedy, but young and joyous. What I would give to return to those days, riding together across the country on a perfect morning, a roc balanced in the air above us like an angel guarding our happiness.